So I want you to make a new directory
inside of your project directory, and
we're gonna call this one networking,
cd into networking.
And, Let's do this.
We're gonna say npm init -y.
And we're gonna say npm install mongodb
@hapi/hapi, and we need hapi-pino.
P-I-N-O, I think that's all we need,
let me check.
Yeah, that should be good.
That'll take a second to
install a few of those things.
And here, I'm going to create an index.js.
Actually let's just do it
here from the file explorer.
Close the rest of those.
And here inside the networking,
we're gonna say New File and
this is gonna be called index.js.
And I'm gonna come back over
here to networking with Docker,
and we are going to copy everything here.
It's a little bit more complicated app,
it talks to a database.
Again, you don't necessarily
have to understand
this to understand what we are doing here.
But to just momentarily walk
you through the code here.
It's going to connect to mongodb
via the official driver.
Let's make sure that we
get the right version.
That was a big problem for me last time.
To be safe, when you're doing npm install,
You wanna do @hapi/hapi,
hapi-pino and mongodb@3.
Just to make sure that you're
getting the correct driver for this.
Let's even say @3.3.
Let's just do that.
So this will downgrade
your mongodb to 3.35.
There we go, 3.4 might work,
it might not, we're not going to check.
Okay, going back.
We're gonna start a hapi server,
it's going to instantiate a MongoClient.
And it's going to connect to either if
I provide an environmental variable of
it Mongo connection string
it'll connect to that.
Otherwise it's going to default
to connecting to just a locally
running MongoDB.
So you could run this locally if
you're running MongoD, on your laptop.
Okay, we'll give it a DB name of dockerApp
and we'll give a collection name of count.
Anytime that you hit
the slash route it's going
to say how many items do I have in my,
what do I call it?
Count collection.
So collections are like
tables in SQL terms, right?
And databases are databases, right?
So and then whenever you call /add,
it's going to insert just
a literally empty object, right?
Which is just gonna have an ID.
So that's all it's gonna do is it's
just going to continually add things to
your database.
Basically, the best application ever.
I stand by this work.
No, I'm just kidding.
That's it, yeah, that's really just it.
Okay, and again, you could just
say brew install mongodb, and
then run mongod in the background.
All this would just work and
that'd be fine, but
we're gonna do it with containers.
Yeah, that's actually what I have here,
okay, npm-install mongodb@3.3,
so that's what we want.
So if you're having issues,
make sure you have mongo 3.3 and not 3.4.
Okay, now what we're going to do,
Is we need to give it a Docker file.
So really any old Docker
file is gonna work.
So let's just copy the one from the,
Which one should we get,
not the volumes, let's do it from
the more complicated node app.
Not that one, this one.
And we're just going to copy that
into a new Docker file here.
Basically, we just need
a working node application.
So this one that does, copies
everything over, run the npm install.
Don't need the expose,
you can delete that.
Then the command here of node,
index.js, right?
The key here is that we just need to
start the node application in a working
environment.
So I'm going to come
in here to where am I?
I'm in networking.
So I'm going to say docker build --tag and
we'll call this node-with-mongo or
something like that.
You can call it whatever you want.
What do I call here?
App-with-mongo, so
we'll stick to app-with-mongo.
That'll take a second to build.
And then it should be packaged up and
ready to go, and there we go.
So now we're going to run this app and
connect to the other
database that's running.
So we're gonna say,
docker run -p 3000:3000
--network=app-net --env,
we have to tell it where to connect,
right?
So we're gonna
say MONGO_CONNECTION_STRING
=mongodb://db:27017.
Again, remember, if you put db,
it's going to know because they're on
the same network that db goes over to
the db container, cuz we named it.
And then we're gonna run
it with app-with-mongo, or
whatever you called your container.
I think my notes actually
say my app-with-mongo,
as long as you call it the same thing,
it doesn't actually matter.
So you can see it started up correctly.
And now if I go over
here to local host 3000,
you can see that it has this count number.
Can I make that bigger?
I can.
So that's what we expect.
It has nothing in that
collection right now.
If I open it with /add, then it's
gonna say, cool, I inserted something.
And now if I go back to the other one and
refresh, you can see that its count is 1.
Or if I come back over here and
just hit refresh a bunch of times.
And I go back over here to /, you can
see now I have 18 items in the database.
So now I have one container,
the app-with-mango container
talking to the MangoDB container.
They're doing it via the app network
that we set up for ourselves.
So I recognize this is a bit
burdensome to do, right?
It's not very fun to
set up the network and
make sure all the networks
are talking to each other.
It'd be better if there was a tool
that just did all this stuff for us.
There is, but you can kind of
get my teaching style where I
want you to feel the pain and then I want
to give you the tool that solves the pain.
And I don't want to give you the tool that
solves the pain before you understand why
something sucks first, right?
I wanted something to suck first.
And then I want you to be happy for
the tool that solves the thing that sucks,
right?
So the next thing we're going
to talk about is Docker Compose.
And Docker Compose takes care of all this
stuff for you just kind of out of the box.